README.md, before:

# Estate

### Spring Boot configuration : 
- Project Type: Maven
- Java Language Version: 17
- Spring Boot Version: 2.6.1
  
### Dependencies:
- Spring Boot Starter Data JPA
- Spring Boot Starter Security
- Spring Boot Starter Validation
- Spring Boot Starter Web
- MySQL Connector Java (runtime scope)
- JSON Web Token (JJWT)
- Spring Boot Starter Test
- Spring Security Test
- Lombok (optional)

### Build Plugins:
- Spring Boot Maven Plugin
- Jacoco Maven Plugin for code coverage reporting and checking
- Maven Compiler Plugin for configuring Java version compatibility to 9
- Exclusions: Excludes specific packages from code coverage checks in Jacoco

## Start the project

Git clone:

> git clone https://github.com/MathieuCOLLARD/Testez-une-application-full-stack

### Start the front

Open a terminal and check if we are in "Testez-une-application-full-stack/front"

Start the front using this command in a terminal:

> npm run start

### Start the back

Choose com.openclassrooms.api.ApiApplication file in configuration

Start the project using run button in the IDE or using right click on SpringBootSecurityJwtApplication.java file and 'Run SpringBootSecurityJwtApplication.main()'

## Configure the database 

Download mysql with the installer :

> https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/installer/

cd in the mysql folder or use mysql as global variable and run this command :

> 'mysql -u root -p'

Choose the right database using the command

> 'USE _databasename_'

Use the script file in the angular project to create tables and dependencies :

> ressources/sql/script.sql

## Run the tests and generate coverage

### Unitary test (Jest)

Launching test:

> npm run test

for following change:

> npm run test:watch

Generate coverage: 

> npm test -- --coverage

Coverage report avaible here:

> front/coverage/jest/lcov-report/index.html

### Test E2E

Launching e2e test:

> npm run e2e

Generate coverage report (you should launch e2e test before):

> npm run e2e:coverage

Report is available here:

> front/coverage/lcov-report/index.html

### Jacoco Test

Launch and generate the jacoco code coverage :

> mvn clean test

Coverage report available here: 

> back/yoga-app/target/jacoco/index.html

## Ressources

### Postman collection

For Postman import the collection

> ressources/postman/yoga.postman_collection.json 

by following the documentation: 

https://learning.postman.com/docs/getting-started/importing-and-exporting-data/#importing-data-into-postman


### MySQL

SQL script for creating the schema is available `ressources/sql/script.sql`

Commit message:

Add Project Presentation and Requirement to the README

README.md, after:

# Project Presentation
This project is a yoga web application in which you can log in, create yoga sessions if you are an administrator or just register for your sessions and see the details.
Some tests are made for each fonctonality in the application, including front-end, back-end and end-to-end tests using Jest, Cypress and Jacoco.

### Spring Boot configuration : 
- Project Type: Maven
- Java Language Version: 17
- Spring Boot Version: 2.6.1
  
### Dependencies:
- Spring Boot Starter Data JPA
- Spring Boot Starter Security
- Spring Boot Starter Validation
- Spring Boot Starter Web
- MySQL Connector Java (runtime scope)
- JSON Web Token (JJWT)
- Spring Boot Starter Test
- Spring Security Test
- Lombok (optional)

### Build Plugins:
- Spring Boot Maven Plugin
- Jacoco Maven Plugin for code coverage reporting and checking
- Maven Compiler Plugin for configuring Java version compatibility to 9
- Exclusions: Excludes specific packages from code coverage checks in Jacoco

## Requirement

Before running the application, ensure the following prerequisites:

- Java Installation: Ensure that Java is installed on your system.
If it's not the case, follow indications on this link :
> https://www.java.com/fr/download/manual.jsp

- Node.js and npm: Make sure Node.js and npm (Node Package Manager) are installed. You can download and install Node.js here :
> https://nodejs.org/en


- Angular CLI: If you plan to work on the frontend part of the application, make sure you have Angular CLI installed. You can install it using npm with the following command:
> npm install -g @angular/cli.

- Git: Ensure Git is installed on your system for cloning the project repository. You can download Git from here :
> https://git-scm.com/

## Start the project

Git clone:

> git clone https://github.com/MathieuCOLLARD/Testez-une-application-full-stack

### Start the front

Open a terminal and check if we are in "Testez-une-application-full-stack/front"

Start the front using this command in a terminal:

> npm run start

### Start the back

Choose com.openclassrooms.api.ApiApplication file in configuration

Start the project using run button in the IDE or using right click on SpringBootSecurityJwtApplication.java file and 'Run SpringBootSecurityJwtApplication.main()'

## Configure the database 

Download mysql with the installer :

> https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/installer/

cd in the mysql folder or use mysql as global variable and run this command :

> 'mysql -u root -p'

Choose the right database using the command

> 'USE _databasename_'

Use the script file in the angular project to create tables and dependencies :

> ressources/sql/script.sql

## Run the tests and generate coverage

### Unitary test (Jest)

Launching test:

> npm run test

for following change:

> npm run test:watch

Generate coverage: 

> npm test -- --coverage

Coverage report avaible here:

> front/coverage/jest/lcov-report/index.html

### Test E2E

Launching e2e test:

> npm run e2e

Generate coverage report (you should launch e2e test before):

> npm run e2e:coverage

Report is available here:

> front/coverage/lcov-report/index.html

### Jacoco Test

Launch and generate the jacoco code coverage :

> mvn clean test

Coverage report available here: 

> back/yoga-app/target/jacoco/index.html

## Ressources

### Postman collection

For Postman import the collection

> ressources/postman/yoga.postman_collection.json 

by following the documentation: 

https://learning.postman.com/docs/getting-started/importing-and-exporting-data/#importing-data-into-postman


### MySQL

SQL script for creating the schema is available `ressources/sql/script.sql`
